have you ever wondered how artists like
Miley Cyrus the weekend or J leiper get
their vocals to sound so clear clean and
Lush what's the magical formula what's
the secret trick they're using on vocals
knowing this could completely change
your mixes forever well let me show you
how so the weekend is known for having a
ton of effects all over the vocals but
if you have loads of effects over the
vocals as in a Reverb And Delay over the
vocals it all sounds really Washi a
little bit like
[Applause]
[Music]
this
and
out so all you're hearing is you can't
get your head away from the vocals it's
not clear enough and you can't hear the
backing track cuz all you're hearing is
just this massive Reverb wash the way
around this is to First send the vocal
to a bus so what we're going to do we're
going to have a Reverb on one bus and
we're going to have the delayer on the
second bus so bus one has The Vow Hala
set up on it which is my uh selected
Reverb of choice for this vocal and then
on the second bus I have a delay which
is set up in a similar way to this after
these on this bus I want to put a
compressor so what I'm doing I'm putting
a compressor after the Reverb and after
the delay and what we're going to do to
get it so that it's not washing it with
Reverb And Delay through the whole of
the track we're going to side chain the
compress pressor that we have to the
vocal channel so as the vocal plays it
will duck the Reverb and duck the delay
out of the way so that they're not fully
on but they are on a little bit and then
when the vocal then releases that will
release the Reverb And Delay to show you
the effect it's a really brilliant way
of making the track sound super clean
but also have that really over-the-top
really washy vocal sound let me just
show you exactly how I've got that
running on the delay on the second bus
I'm also adding in a little bit more
Reverb onto that so that it keeps the
delay so it's not as dry let's turn
these compressors on so when I bring up
the compressor we need to just select
the side chain which is going to be the
vocal here and then we'll do the same on
the delay so we've got that side
chaining to the vocal too now in the
setup I'm using this standard logic
compressor I'm using the ratio about 7 8
to1 and then you just adjust the
threshold so that you're getting around
-5 -8 DB of gain reduction when it's
coming through there's no gain makeup
and it's on 100% mix so that it's um
basically just ducking that sound by
about 8 DB when it comes in and then out
again now the attack and release times
we're fairly quick and the release we
can keep it a little bit longer so that
we can get a really smooth sound to the
Reverb and the delay so you don't need
to go super quick on that but again
adjust these settings to here depending
on the vocal depending on the effect you
need to just adjust all of your settings
so that you can get a nice sound I'm
merely just showing you the technique um
that we're using so when I'm doing that
this is how it
[Applause]
[Music]
sounds and
out in and out Al love I'm
calling you
out
W we're falling
[Music]
in and out alone in and out alone I'm
calling
you
w we're
[Applause]
[Music]
falling in and out alone in and out
alone I'm
calling
you w
so as you can hear it makes the vocal
really tight and you still get a really
Lush sound coming from the vocal you
need to adjust the vocal just to get
those levels right but if you want to
take this to another Advanced step if
you want to go that one step further
then check out the video I did last week
where I was showing you a reverse side
chain EQ trick you could add that to the
Orcs on here for an amazing effect and
that will really super hype your mixes
so check that out last week's video on
the EQ reverse vers side chain trick
don't forget to hit the like button
right now to say thank you for showing
you this trick and then that will
encourage me to show you some more and
don't forget to subscribe see you on the
next one